The Project Gutenberg eBook of Radio mates
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Radio mates


Author: Benjamin Witwer

Release date: December 11, 2023 [eBook #72380]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: E. P. Co., Inc, 1927

Credits: Roger Frank and Sue Clark


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RADIO MATES ***




                              Radio Mates


[Illustration: “Think of it! A twist of a switch and the living,
breathing piglet slowly dissolved before my eyes and vanished along a
pair of wires to my aerial, whence it was transferred as a set of waves
in the ether to the receiving apparatus--there to reincarnate into the
living organism once more, alive and breathing, unharmed by its
extraordinary journey!”]

                              RADIO MATES

                           by Benjamin Witwer


    From the telegraph to the telephone was but a step. From the
    telephone to radio constituted but another such step, and we
    are now enjoying radio broadcast from stations thousands of
    miles away. Every time you have an Xray photograph taken you
    are bombarded, not by rays, but by actual particles that go
    right through the walls of the tube, which particles are
    just as real as if they were bullets or bricks, the only
    difference being that they are smaller. Thus our scientists
    lead up to the way of sending solids through space. While
    impossible of achievement, as yet, it may be possible, years
    hence, to send living beings through space, to be received
    at distant points. At any rate, the author of this story
    weaves a fascinating romance around this idea. It makes
    excellent reading, and the plot is as unusual as is its
    entire treatment.

It was a large brown envelope, of the size commonly used for mailing
pamphlets or catalogues. Yet it was registered, and had come by special
messenger that afternoon, my landlady informed me. Probably it was a
strain of that detective instinct which is present in most of us that
delayed my opening the missive until I had carefully scrutinized the
handwriting of the superscription. There was something vaguely familiar
in its slanting exactitude, yet when I deciphered the
postmark,--“Eastport, N. Y.,”--I was still in the dark, for I could not
remember ever having heard of the place before. As I turned the packet
over, however, my pleasant tingle of anticipation was rudely chilled.
Along the flap was a sinister row of black sealing wax blobs, which
seemed to stare at me with a malignant fore-knowledge. On closer
examination, I noticed that each seal retained the impression of a
coat-of-arms, also elusively familiar.

With a strange sense of foreboding I dropped the missive on the table.
Queer what ominous significance a few drops of wax can impart to an
ordinary envelope. Deliberately I changed into smoking jacket and
slippers, poked the well laid fire and lit a pipe before finally tearing
open the seals.

There were many typewritten sheets, commencing in letter form:

                                                54 Westervelt Ave.,
                                                    Eastport, New York,
                                                        February 15th.

Dear Cousin George:

Now that you have identified me by referring to my signature on the last
page (which I had just done) you will no doubt wonder at the occasion
for this rather effusive letter from one so long silent as I have been.
The fact of the matter is that you are the only male relative with whom
I can communicate at this time. My nephew, Ralph, is first officer of a
freighter somewhere in the Caribbean, and Alfred Hutton, your mother’s
first cousin, has not been heard from since he embarked on that
colonizing scheme in New Guinea, nearly a year ago.

I must do all in my power to prevent the bungling metropolitan police
from implicating Howard Marsden in my disappearance. It would take no
great stretch of the imagination to do just that, and were the State to
require Marsden’s life as forfeit for my own, then my carefully planned
revenge would be utterly frustrated. I have been cultivating the village
postmaster for some weeks, ever since this plan began to shape
definitely in my mind. I am mailing this letter at three o’clock this
afternoon, for I have noticed that at that hour the postal section of
the store is generally deserted. I shall ask him if his clock is
correct, thus fixing the time in his mind. Please remember these points.
Then I shall register this letter, taking care to exhibit the unusual
collection of seals on the back. I shall manage to inform him also that
I stamped the seals with my ring and will show him the coat-of-arms,
explaining its meaning in detail. These villagers are a curiosity-ridden
lot. Upon returning home, I shall drop this same ring into the inkwell
which stands upon my desk. Finally I shall proffer my friend the
postmaster a fifty-dollar bill in paying for my registry. The registry
slip itself will be found within the hatband of my brown hat, which I
shall place in the wall safe of my study.

You are becoming more amazed as you proceed, no doubt asking yourself if
this letter is the product of a madman or a faker. Before you have
finished you will probably be assured that both assumptions are correct.
It matters little, for I will at least have firmly established the fact
that this letter was mailed by no one else but me. As for the rest,
Howard Marsden will corroborate what follows.

To begin at the beginning. As you know, or perhaps you do not know, for
I forget that our correspondence has been negligible of late, five years
ago I accompanied the Rodgers expedition into Afghanistan. We were
officially booked as a geological mission, but were actually in search
of radium, among other things. When I left, I was practically engaged to
Venice Potter, a distant relation of the Long Island Potters, of whom
you have perhaps heard. I say “practically” engaged because the outcome
of this expedition was to furnish me with the standing and position
necessary for a formal demand for her hand. As I said, that was nearly
five years ago.

Four months after my departure her letters ceased coming and mine were
returned to me unopened. Two months later I received an announcement of
her betrothal to Howard Marsden. Received it out there in Afghanistan,
when I had returned to the coast for supplies. We’ll skip that next
year, during which I stuck with the expedition. We were successful. I
returned.

Then I found out where the Marsdens were living, here in Eastport. I’d
met Marsden once or twice in the old days, but paid him little attention
at the time. He seemed but another of the moneyed idlers; had a
comfortable income from his father’s estate and was interested in
“gentleman farming,”--blooded stock and the rest. I decided that it was
useless to dig into dead ashes for the time being, at least until I
could determine the lay of the land, so to speak. Meanwhile I had my
researches to make, a theory I had evolved as a sort of backfire to fill
that awful void of Venice’s loss,--out there on the edge of the world.
Countless sleepless nights I had spent in a feverish attempt to lose
myself in scientific speculation. At last I believed I had struck a clue
to conclusions until now entirely overlooked by eager searchers. I
decided to establish my laboratory here in Eastport, perhaps devoting
any leisure hours to an unravelling of that mystery of my sudden
jilting. With a two-year-old beard and sunbaked complexion there were
few who would have recognized me under my real name, and none in my
assumed role of “Professor Walters.”

                   *       *       *       *       *

Thus it was that I leased an old house not half a mile from Marsden’s
pretentious “farm.” I converted the entire ground floor into a
laboratory, living in solitary state upon the upper floor. I was used to
caring for myself, and the nature of my experiment being of such
potentialities, I felt that I wanted no prying servants about me.
Indeed, it has turned out to be of such international importance that I
feel no compunction whatever in utilizing it for my own selfish ends. It
could be a boon to humanity, yet its possibilities for evil in the hands
of any individual or group is so great as to render it most dangerous to
the happiness of the human kind on this small globe.

One day, some three months after I had taken up my residence in
Eastport, I had a visitor. It was Marsden. He had been attracted by the
sight of my novel aerial, just completed. By his own admission he was an
ardent “radio fan,” as they are popularly termed, I believe, and he
spent the better part of an afternoon bragging of stations he had
“logged” with his latest model radio set. Aside from my vague suspicions
of his complicity in the alienation of my beloved Venice, I must admit
that even then I felt an indefinable repulsion towards him. There was
something intangibly unwholesome about him, a narrowness between the
eyes which repelled me. Yet, although at that time I had no plan in
mind, nevertheless I encouraged him in my most hospitable manner, for
even thus early I felt, that at some time not far distant, I might be
called upon to utilize this acquaintanceship to my own advantage.

This first visit was followed by others, and we discussed radio in all
its phases, for the man had more than a smattering of technical
knowledge on the subject and was eager to learn more. At last, one day,
I yielded to his insistence that I inspect his set and agreed to dine at
his house the following evening. By now I felt secure in my disguise,
and although I dreaded the moment when I should actually confront my
lost love once more, yet I longed for the sweet pain of it with an
intensity which a hard-shelled bachelor like you will never understand.
Enough. I arrived at the Marsden’s the next evening and was duly
presented to my hostess as “Thomas Walters.” In spite of my private
rehearsals I felt a wave of giddiness sweep over me as I clasped that
small white hand in my own after the lapse of almost five years, for she
was, if possible, lovelier than ever. I noted when my vision cleared
that her eyes had widened as they met mine. I realized that my
perturbation had been more apparent than I imagined and managed to
mutter something about my alleged “weak heart,” a grimmer jest by far
than I intended. Frantically I fortified myself with remembrances of
those barren days in Afghanistan, where I stayed on and on, impotent to
raise a hand in the salvage of my heart’s wreckage.

We chatted politely all through that interminable meal, no morsel of
which aroused the faintest appreciation on my dry tongue. Finally the
chairs were pushed back and my host excused himself to bring down some
pieces of apparatus he had recently purchased, concerning which he
professed to desire my invaluable opinion.

No sooner had he left the room than the polite smile dropped from
Venice’s face like a discarded mask.

“Dick,” she cried, “what are you doing here?”

It was my first inkling that she suspected my true identity. I rallied
quickly, however, and allowed my self-encouraged bitterness its outlet.

“Had I believed you would recognize me, _Mrs. Marsden_, I should not
have inflicted my unwelcome presence upon you, I can assure you.”

She bit her lips and her head raised with a jerk. Then her mouth
softened again as her great eyes searched mine.

“Yes, but why--” she broke off at the sound of approaching footsteps.
Suddenly she leaned forward. “Meet me in the pine grove to-morrow
afternoon--four o’clock,” she breathed. Then her husband entered.

The remainder of the evening I was forced to listen to Marsden’s eager
dissertation on the alleged “static eliminator” which had been foisted
upon him on his last trip to the city. Mechanically I answered or
grunted in simulated appreciation when a pause in his endless monologue
warned me that some reply was expected of me; but my pulses were leaping
in exultation because of the fleeting hope which those few words from my
lost Venice had kindled. I could not imagine why the offer to bridge the
breach of years should come from her so voluntarily, yet it was enough
for me that she remembered and wished to see me. I cared not why.

I arrived nearly an hour early that next afternoon, for I had been
unable either to sleep or work during the interim. I shall not bore you
with the particulars of that meeting, even were I free to reveal such
sacred details. Suffice to say that after the preliminaries of doubt and
misunderstanding had been brushed away--and it was not the simple
process this synopsis would seem to infer, I can assure you--I stood
revealed as the victim of a most ingenious and thoroughly knavish plot.
Boiled down, it resembles one of those early movie scenarios.

You remember I spoke of Venice as related to the Long Island Potters, a
branch of the family highly rated in the Social Register? You will also
remember that before I undertook that expedition I was never
particularly certain whence my next year’s expenses were to be derived,
nor to what extent, if you understand what I mean. At about the time I
was preparing for this expedition which I hoped would make me
financially and scientifically independent, this wealthy branch of the
family seriously “took up” my darling Venice, inviting her to live with
them that summer. I remember now all too late, that even during that
confusion of mind caused by the agony of leaving my loved one, coupled
with the feverish preparations for departure, chill clouds of censure
came from the aloof Potters. They made no effort to mask their
disapproval of my humble self and prospects, yet in my blindness I had
never connected them intimately with what followed.

It was, in short, the old story of the ingenious man-on-the-ground, the
“good match,” aided and abetted by the patronesses of the “poor
relation.” The discriminating Marsden naturally fell in love with
Venice, and to his great surprise and chagrin, was decisively repulsed
by her. Never before having been refused anything he really wanted in
his comfortably arranged life, he became passionately desirous of
possessing her. Accordingly, my darling was shown a letter, forged with
such diabolical cleverness as to be almost indistinguishable from my own
hand. It purported to intrigue me with a very ordinary female at a
period coincident with the time I had been so fervently courting my dear
one.

She refused to credit the document and dispatched me a voluminous
explanation of the whole occurrence. Attributing my silence to the
exigencies of distance, she continued to write me for over a month. When
no answer arrived after nearly three long months, she at length
delivered a hastily planned ultimatum, to which she was later persuaded
to adhere through the combined pressure of Marsden and her family,
beating against the razed defences of her broken heart. Then it was that
I received the betrothal announcement, the only communication her
watchful family had permitted to escape their net of espionage.

                   *       *       *       *       *

As the story unfolded, my heart pounded with alternate waves of
exaltation and red rage at the treacherous Marsden. Because of selfish
duplicity, he had robbed us both of five years’ happiness, for I had
forced my darling’s admission that she had never loved him, and now
despised him as a common thief. My brief moment of delirious joy was
sharply curtailed, however, when I came to press her to separate from
this selfish swine. After some demur she confided that he was a drug
addict. She said that he had been fighting desperately to break this
habit ever since their marriage, for his jealous love of her was the
only remaining weapon with which to combat his deep rooted vice.
Deprived of his one motive, my darling earnestly assured me that it
would be a matter of but a few short years before the white powders
wrote Finis to yet another life. I could see but a balancing of an
already overdrawn account in such an event, and said so in no uncertain
terms. She did not chide me, merely patiently explained with sweet, sad
resignation that she held herself responsible for his very life for the
present. That although she could not love and honor him as she had
promised, yet she was bound to cleave to him during this, his “worse”
hour. And so we left it for the time, our future clouded, yet with no
locked door to bar the present from us.

We met almost daily, unless Marsden’s activities interfered. At those
times I was like a raging beast, unable to work, consumed with a livid
hatred for the cunning thief who had stolen my love while my back was
turned. I could not shake her resolution to terminate this loveless
match, even though she now loathed the mate she had once tolerated. But
in spite of the formlessness of our future, my work progressed as never
before. Now my days were more than a mere procession of dates, for each
was crowned with the glow of those few stolen moments with my darling
Venice.

Came the day of my first complete success. Some weeks previously I had
finally succeeded in transmitting a small wooden ball by radio. Perhaps
I should say that I had “dissolved” it into its vibrations, for it was
not until this later day that I had been able to materialize or
“receive” it after it had been “sent.” I see you start and re-read this
last sentence. I mean just what I say, and Marsden will bear me out, for
as you shall see, he has witnessed this and other such experiments here
in my laboratory. I have explained to him as much as I wanted him to
know of the process, in fact, just enough so that he believes that a
little intensive research and experimentation on his part will make him
master of my secret. But he is entirely ignorant of the most important
element, as well as of the manner of its employment.

Yes, after years of study and interrupted experimental research I was
enabled finally to disintegrate, without the aid of heat, a solid object
into its fundamental vibrations, transmit these vibrations into the
ether in the form of so-called “radio waves” which I then attracted and
condensed in my “receiving” apparatus, slowly damping their short kinked
vibration-rate until finally there was deposited the homogeneous whole,
identical in outline and displacement,--entirely unharmed from its
etheric transmigration!

My success in this, my life’s dream, was directly the result of our
discoveries on that bitter expedition into Afghanistan. All my life I
had been interested in the study of vibrations, but had achieved no
startling successes or keen expectations thereof until we stumbled upon
that strange mineral deposit on what was an otherwise ill-fated trip for
me. It was then that I realized that radioactive niton might solve my
hitherto insurmountable difficulty in the transmission of material
vibrations into electronic waves. My experiments thereafter, while
successful to the degree that I discovered several entirely new
principles of resonic harmonics, as well as an absolute refutation of
the quantum theory of radiation, fell far short of my hoped-for goal. At
that time I was including both helium and uranium in my improved cathode
projectors, and it was not until I had effected a more sympathetic
combination with thorium that I began to receive encouraging results. My
final success came with the substitution of actinium for the uranium and
the addition of polonium, plus a finer adjustment which I was able to
make in the vortices of my three modified Tesla coils, whose limitations
I had at first underrated. I was then enabled to filter my resonance
waves into pitch with my “electronic radiate rays,” as I called them,
with the success I shall soon describe.

Of course, all this is no clearer than a page of Sanskrit to you, nor do
I intend that it shall be otherwise. As I have said, such a secret is
far too potent to be unloosed upon a world of such delicately poised
nations, whose jaws are still reddened from their recent ravening. It
needs no explanation of mine to envision the terrible possibilities for
evil in the application of this great discovery. It shall go with me--to
return at some future, more enlightened time after another equally
single-minded investigator shall have stumbled upon it. It is this
latter thought which has caused me to drop the hints that I have. My
earnest hope is that you will permit the misguided Marsden to read the
preceding paragraph. In it he will note a reference to an element which
I have not mentioned to him before, and will enable him to obtain
certain encouraging results,--encouraging but to further efforts, to
more frantic attempts. But I digress.

With my success on inanimate objects, I plunged the more
enthusiastically into my work. I should have lost all track of time but
for my daily tryst with Venice. Her belief in me was the tonic which
spurred me on to further efforts after each series of meticulously
conducted experiments had crumbled into failure. It was the knowledge
that she awaited me which alone upheld me in those dark moments of
depression, which every searcher into the realms of the unknown must
encounter.

Then came the night of November 28th, the Great Night. After countless
failures, I finally succeeded in transmitting a live guinea pig through
the atmosphere and “received” it, alive and well, in the corner of my
laboratory. Think of it! A twist of a switch and the living, breathing
piglet slowly dissolved before my eyes and vanished along a pair of
wires to my aerial, whence it was transferred as a set of waves in the
ether to the receiving apparatus,--there to reincarnate into the living
organism once more, alive and breathing, unharmed by its extraordinary
journey! That night I strode out into the open and walked until dawn
suddenly impressed the gray world upon my oblivious exaltation, for I
was King of the Universe, a Weaver of Miracles.

Then it was that my great plan began to take shape. With renewed energy
I began the construction of a mammoth transmitter. At intervals I
“transmitted” stray cats and dogs of every description, filling several
books with notes wherein I recorded minutely the varying conditions of
my subjects before transmission. Invariably their condition upon being
“cohered” in the receiving tube, was excellent. In some cases, indeed,
minor ailments had entirely disappeared during their short passage
through the ether. What a study for the medical profession!

I had, of course, told Venice the object of my researches long ago, but
had never brought her to my laboratory for reasons of discretion. One
afternoon, however, I slipped her in under cover of the heavy downpour.
After I had warmed her with a cup of tea, before her astonished eyes I
transmitted an old she-cat which was afflicted with some sort of
rheumatism or paralysis of its hind legs. When its form began to
reappear in the transparent receiving tube, my darling gasped in awed
wonder. She was rendered utterly speechless, however, when I switched
off the current and released the animal from its crystal prison. And no
wonder, for it gambolled about like a young kitten, all trace of its
former malady having entirely disappeared! The impression upon Venice
was all that I had hoped for, and when I at length escorted her out into
the dusk, I felt her quick, awed glances flickering over me like the
reverence of a shy neophyte for the high priest.

                   *       *       *       *       *

All was set for the final act. I literally hurled myself into the
completion of my improved set. The large quantities of certain minerals
required caused me an unexpected delay. This I filled with
demonstrations in the presence of Marsden, whom I was encouraging as a
fellow radio enthusiast,--with considerable unexpected histrionic
ability on my part. It was so hard to keep my fingers off his throat! I
pretended to explain to him the important factors of my great secret,
and drilled him in the mechanical operation of the sets. I had divulged
to him also that my greatest desire was to demonstrate my principle on a
human being, and like all great scientific explorers, proposed to offer
myself as the subject. Venice had strenuously opposed the proposal until
the demonstration on the diseased cat, and even now viewed the entire
proposition with alarm. Yet I insisted that unless applied to human
beings my entire work went for naught, and I finally succeeded in
quieting her fears to a great extent.

At last I am ready. I have told my darling how it is impossible to
transmit anything metallic by the very nature of the conflicting rays
encountered. I have bemoaned the fact that, due to the softness of my
teeth since boyhood, my mouth is one mass of metallic fillings and
crowns, rendering it impossible for me to test the efficiency of my
life’s work. As I had hoped, she has volunteered herself as the subject
for the great experiment, for her white teeth are as yet innocent of
fillings. I have demurred and refused to listen to the idea, permitting
myself to be won over only after days of earnest argument on her part.
We are not to tell Marsden, for there is no doubt that his fanatical
love for her would refuse to tolerate the mere suggestion.

Tonight it shall be accomplished. There is no other way, for that
accursed husband of hers seems to progress in neither direction. He will
be nothing but a mud-buried anchor until the end of her days, while I--I
love her. What other excuse need be offered?

But to the facts. At eight o’clock that drug-soaked love pirate comes to
officiate at my transmission through space. I shall meet him with a
chloroformed soaked rag. Later he will awake to find himself effectively
gagged, with his hands and feet firmly shackled to the wall of a dark
corner of my laboratory. These shackles consist of armatures across the
poles of large electro-magnets which I have embedded in the walls. At
10:30, a time switch will cut off the current, releasing the wretch,
for, above all things, he must live. I debated sending a message for his
chauffeur to call for him here at the designated hour. I have decided
rather to trust to mechanical certitude than lay my plan open to
frustration because of some human vagary.

At nine o’clock Venice comes for the great experiment. Marsden has told
her that he will remain in the city over night, at my suggestion, so
that in case I fail to materialize after being “sent” he cannot be held
in connection with my disappearance. She does not know that I have had
my teeth extracted and have been using India rubber plates for nearly a
month. By the time she has arrived, the effects of the chloroform will
have entirely worn off from my would-be assistant, and I shall have had
plenty of time to introduce myself properly to him and explain the
evening’s program which has been so carefully arranged for his benefit.

Then he will have the excruciating pleasure of watching his beloved wife
dissolve into--nothingness! Soon thereafter he will witness the same
process repeated upon myself, for I have so adapted the apparatus that I
need no outside assistance other than a time-clock to actuate the
mechanism! Then, at the appointed hour, the current will be shut off and
the frenzied wretch will rush to the distant switch controlling the
receiving apparatus. As he throws the metal bars into their split
receptacles there will come a blinding flash, and behold--the apparatus
will have disappeared in a puff of crystalline particles! The secret has
returned whence it came!

Then will come that personally prepared hell for my mean spirited
forger. As I told you, he believes that he is in possession of enough of
the details of my secret to reconstruct the apparatus and duplicate my
success. The added details of this letter will assure him into an
idiotic confidence which will lead him on and on through partially
successful attempts. I know that no matter whether you sympathize with
my actions or not (and I am sure that you do not, for you never have),
your sense of justice will force you to show this letter to the proper
authorities in order to prevent a fatal bungling.

Meanwhile that miserable sneak will be frenzied with the knowledge that
at last, the lover he so long cheated of his loved one is now with her,
alone,--where he, her lawful husband, can never follow. And we shall be
together, unchanged, awaiting the day when some other enlightened mortal
solves Nature’s riddle, when we shall once more assume our earthly
forms, unhindered by other selfish manbeasts.

                                                Farewell,
                                                    Bromley Cranston.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Needless to say, I hurried to Eastport. But my trip was unnecessary. I
found Harold Marsden in a “private sanitarium” for the hopelessly
insane. There all day, and as far into the night as the opiates would
permit him, he is to be found seated before a radio set, the earphones
clamped to his head--listening. His statements, methodically filed away
by the head of the place, corresponded wildly with the prophecies of my
strange letter. Now he was listening to fragmentary messages from those
two he had seen precipitated into space, he maintained. Listening.

And they had disappeared, utterly. I found the large seal ring in the
inkwell on the desk. Also the slip in the hatband of the hat which had
been placed in the wall safe, unlocked. The postmaster remembered the
seals on the letter my cousin had mailed, and the approximate time he
had received it. I felt my own reason wavering.

That is why, fantastic as is the whole affair, I cannot yet bear the
sound of one of those radio loud speakers. It is when that inarticulate
sound they call “static” occurs, when fragments of words and sentences
seem to be painfully attempting to pierce a hostile medium,--that I
picture that hunched up figure with its spidery earphones,--listening.
Listening. For what?

                                The End


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the July 1927 issue of
Amazing Stories Magazine.]




        
            *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RADIO MATES ***
        

    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.